well whenever you talk about aftermarket
or even custom four-wheel drive
suspension there's always one name that
seems to pop up so join me as I take you
on a look at one of Australia's
longest-running aftermarket four-wheel
drive suspension stores okay Ken right
hello mate well folks this is Ken a
Keith and Ken here is the proprietor of
the ultimate suspension over 35 years
experience in four-wheel drive
suspensions mate how about the grand
tour of the new place let's go for those
that have visited us before at our old
premises of Minto will recall we had
eight different units and we were there
for 35 years last year we decided a new
change you bigger building all under the
one roof and that's what we have here we
have our own fitting Bay we have our own
testing spring manufacturing shock
absorber manufacturing with all the test
facilities well Ken you've been running
the ultimate suspension since 1975 tell
us how it all came about in the
beginning well it actually all started a
bit before then but there's a hobby and
from the hobby through the love of
motorsport in those days we had a fairly
good reputation for upgrading suspension
on cars rally cars and special cars for
club events from that it actually grew
into where we're doing up the forward to
our vehicles to do the full drive rally
for Drive special events and setting up
vehicles for for drive touring and tell
us how the ultimate suspension staff
determined what are the correct
components to use very individual
customers needs at the ultimate
suspension all the staff are trained and
hands-on right from the original R&D
through manufacturing fitting and
testing so when a client comes in they
have a very good indication of what is
needed for that vehicle so if a customer
comes in with a a light pickup say Hilux
or inocent they first inspect the
vehicle to see what sort of accessories
are fitted but it has a bull bone if the
bull bars alloy or still as from asking
a whole range of questions that we get
from the client what their requirements
are may tell us what sort of a warranty
does the ultimate suspension product
carry the ultimate suspension carry the
ultimate warranty in other words full
protection so on your Springs whether it
be
oil's torsion bars leaf springs get a
lifetime warranty that's against
breaking or sagging with the shock
absorbers we give a two-year or 80,000
kilometer warranty now the big advantage
with all the ultimate shocks there
rebuildable they have mono too we have
twin tube cast twin tube foam so after a
period of time even outside the warranty
if you have a problem it's not really a
problem and bring the shocks in we can
rebuild them so what it makes is our
shop is green it's not a throwaway item
well after 35 years in the forward drive
suspension gun you must have learned a
thing or two give us your top tip for
the four-wheel drive action viewers that
may be contemplating a suspension
upgrade for their four-wheel drive a
real good tip is to work out the weight
that you're going to be carrying in your
actual driving requirements right down
to what accessories you've got fitted
now you're planning on having fitted in
the short period and big advantage if
you can get the vehicle weighed quite
often the vehicle overall weight is far
in excess of what we think it is so if
you take your own vehicle down to a
local weigh bridge put the whole vehicle
on weigh the whole vehicle when you go
in you can give to the salesperson the
sort of information they need to be able
to choose the correct spring for your
individual application now I'm sure over
the years might you'd have had a hand in
some very interesting projects tell us
about the ones that stick out in your
mind one of the companies we actually
have a contract with now in developing
suspensions for their armor-plated
vehicles these are vehicles that are
fully armor plated and say an average
Twitter Land Cruiser 200 series once
it's been our plated comes up with a way
around 5.9 tongue so it's a bit of a
challenge to get the vehicle to ride and
handle good let's look like it's sitting
at a standard height so it doesn't stick
out as a vehicle to be targeted and
finally can happen the full drive action
viewers purchase an ultimate suspension
package for their four-wheel drive quite
simply they can come direct to us here
at Engel burn or if they want then go
direct to our website and contact us via
the email connection set there well
thanks for joining us on our exclusive
behind-the-scenes look here at the
ultimate suspension now hopefully we've
given you a real insight into what is
really one of Australia's most
successful aftermarket forward Drive
suspension businesses now over the
coming month we'll be taking an in-depth
look at plenty of successful forward
our businesses so that you can spend
your hard-earned with confidence we'll
see you next time